What is VLMP?
=============

One of the primary problems of scientific simulations is the very fact that specialized software is by its nature rather complicated, often having substantial barriers for a non-expert user. This complexity manifests itself in various forms as the nitty-gritties of script-based inputs where a user has awareness of detailed command syntax or as complexities of setting up simulation parameters requiring an urbane understanding of the phenomena behind. Moreover, user code to enhance the functionality of software might need all sorts of complicated things such as merging in new algorithms or dependency management, which is particularly frightening for an end-user with no programming experience at all.

To ease these challenges and make accessible scientific simulations we have developed the Virtual Lab Modeling Platform (VLMP). VLMP eases the process of performing complex simulations especially within High-Performance Computing (HPC) environments. It makes use of the friendlier language, Python, as opposed to the more complex C/C++ CUDA combination used in UAMMD-structured software. This approach follows recent trends in computational physics where developed Python interfaces have been provided with programs like LAMMPS , GROMACS , and OpenMM. VLMP, on the other hand, does not merely wrap existing tools to check for the presence of formal verification properties in given models, but offers a framework within which various forms of simulation can be developed and run over various computational environments.

The modular design of VLMP is one of its primary features. It built to ease the simple integration of new components, narrowing the process of extending functionality to some platform. This design supports collaborative development allowing the users to implement new modules developed by community, thus enhancing flexibility of the platform for different research purposes.

Additionally, VLMP's multi-level parallelization capability makes it suitable for use in HPC environments. It can efficiently run simulations concurrently on single or multiple GPUs, optimizing computational resource usage.  VLMP effectively manages these tasks, distributing simulations appropriately and organizing results separately for each run.

The next sections describe the design and operational framework of VLMP, in which we discuss its implementation emphasizing the way this platform does accommodate additions of new components as well as their proper integration with the existing one.
